5.  # Variables

Variables are one of the most fundamental concepts in JavaScript and other all programming languages.

## 05.01. Variable

- Variable is \`container to store/hold the data/information\`
- Variable is kind of data holder where we can store some value for programming or calculation purpose
- A JavaScript variable is simply a \`name of storage location (named containers/named storage)\` for data
- The \`assignment operator (=)\` is used to assign value to a variable, like this: \`var varName = value;\` or \`var firstName = 'JavaScript';\`
- Example: Variable declaration and assignment is just \`like Maths & Algebra\`: \`x = 10\`; and in JavaScript we write \`var x = 10;\`

## 05.06. The let and const Keywords ES6

ES6 introduces two new keywords \`let\` and \`const\` for declaring variables. The \`var, let and const\` keywords are almost same, just few differences with scope. In older programms \`var\` is used a lot which declares a variable \`(function-scoped variables)\`, but in a slightly different \`old\` way, with scope issues. Both \`let\` and \`const\` keywords declare variables, \`scoped at block-level ({})\`. Block scoping means that a new scope is created \`between a pair of curly brackets {}\`.

## The let Keyword

- \`ES6\` introduces the new \`let\` keyword for declaring variables. Prior to ES6, the only way to declare a variable in JavaScript was the var keyword. Let's see what's the difference:
- Variables declared with the \`var\` keyword are \`function-scoped\` and can be \`hoisted\` at the top within its scope
- Variables declared with \`let\` keyword are \`block-scoped ({})\` and they are not hoisted
