13. # Events

## 13.01. Understanding Events and Event Handlers

Events are happening/triggering all over, Event lets the developer know \`something has occurred/happened\`

Events occur when the page loads (Onload), when user interact with the web page (clicked a link or button / hover) (onlick), pressed key, moved the mouse pointer, mouse-clicked/hover (onmouseover), entered text into an input box or textarea (onchange,onblur, onfocus), submits a form (submit), page unloads (unload)

When an event occur, use a JavaScript \`event handler (or an event listener) to detect\` them and perform specific task - Event handlers name always begin with the word \`"on"\`, like onclick, onload, onblur, and so on.

To react to an event you \`listen\` for it and supply a \`callback function or event handler\` which will be called by the browser when the event occurs

## 13.02. Different Event category

- Mouse events
- Keyboard events
- Form events
- Document/Window events

## 13.02.04. Document/Window events

Events are happening/triggering all over. Events do triggered even when the page has loaded/unloaded or user resize the browser window. Mentioned here some of the most important document/window events and their event handler:

1.  **DOMContentLoaded** (\`DOMContentLoaded\` event handler)  
    Occurs when the HTML is loaded and processed, DOM is fully built
2.  **load** (\`onload\` event handler)  
    Occurs when web page has finished loading in the web browser
3.  **unload** (\`onunload\` event handler)  
    Occurs when user leaves the current web page
4.  **resize** (\`onresize\` event handler)  
    Occurs when user resizes the browser window, even when browser window minimized or maximized
5.  Note: The unload event is not supported properly in most of the browsers.
